Add Cloud Ops API tab to manual failovers (#4220)
temporalio/documentation: docs/cloud/high-availability/failovers.mdx

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ops-api" label="Cloud Ops API">

You can trigger a failover programmatically using the [Cloud Ops API](/ops).
The API is available via both HTTP and gRPC.

**Using HTTP**

Send a POST request to the [`FailoverNamespaceRegion`](https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/docs/httpapi.html#tag/high-availability/POST/cloud/namespaces/{namespace}/failover-region) endpoint:

```
POST https://saas-api.tmprl.cloud/cloud/namespaces/<namespace>/failover-region
```

Request body:

```json
{
  "region": "<target_region>",
  "asyncOperationId": "<optional_async_operation_id>"
}
```

> - `region` (required): The ID of the region to failover to. Must be a region the Namespace is currently available in. Example: `us-east-1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `region` (required): The [region code](/cloud/regions) of the region to failover to. Must be a region where the Namespace has a replica in `Activated` replica state, indicating the replica is ready to be failed over to. Example: `aws-us-east-1`
```
